Hi everyone, and welcome to
Module Four of
our Motion Planning course.
This week, we will
discuss methods
used within the motion planner,
to handle interactions between
dynamic objects and
the ego vehicle.
We will start this week,
by looking at
the prediction of
dynamic object motion.
We will then go on to
understanding how we are
able to use the dynamic
object predictions,
in order to calculate
the time to collision
between the ego vehicle
and other dynamic objects.
In this lesson, we will define
motion prediction
for dynamic objects
and identify the importance of
such predictions in the greater
path planning problem.
We'll describe the requirements
to accurately and
safely predict the motion
of dynamic objects,
and explore the challenges
inherent in motion prediction.
Finally, we'll perform
our first predictions with
the constant velocity
prediction model.
Let's get started.
Motion prediction attempts to
estimate the future
positions, headings,
and velocities of
all dynamic objects
in the environment over
some finite horizon.
This is crucially important
for the motion planning problem,
as it allows us to plan
future actions and maneuvers
for the autonomous vehicle,
based on the expected motions
of other objects.
The predicted paths also
allow us to make sure that
the path which the ego vehicle
plans to execute,
will not collide with
any future objects
at a future time.
In order to be able to predict
the motion of moving objects,
we must have access to
some information about
the environment around us.
Especially as it relates
to dynamic objects.
For all dynamic objects,
we must first know
the class of the object.
This information is vitally
important as most
prediction models have
different algorithmic
approaches to
vehicles as opposed
to pedestrians.
Next, we need to have information
regarding the dynamic
objects current state,
its position, and velocity
in the environment.
Represented here by
a red vector with
the vector origin equal
to the vehicle position,
the vector magnitude
equal to its speed,
and the vector's
direction equal to
its current heading or
direction of travel.
Without this minimal information,
no predictions can be made about
the dynamic objects
future states.
Finally, there are
many other pieces of information
which although not required
to make a prediction,
can greatly improve the accuracy
of the predictions.
While this list that we'll
present is not exhaustive,
it does demonstrate some
of the major sources of
additional information
to improve predictions.
First is the history of
the dynamic vehicle state or
the vehicle track as it moves
through the environment.
This can be extremely useful.
You've learned how to generate
vehicle tracks from object
detections in course three.
We can use this information
to get a better idea
of how the object is maneuvering
through the environment.
As we can see in our example,
we can see the vehicle
state history
shown as black arrow,
with the position heading and
speed represented as before.
A high definition
roadmap can also be
used as an additional
information source,
to determine future behavior
of dynamic objects.
As will be discussed
further in this module,
vehicles tend to follow
their respective lanes while
driving down the road.
This can provide strong cues
to improve prediction accuracy.
An image of the dynamic object
in its current state can also
be a useful source of
information that can
improve predictions.
This is true for both vehicles
and pedestrians.
For vehicles, the image
can provide information
concerning the current
indicator light
or brake lights
states, for example.
Similarly, images
of pedestrians can
serve to show the current
orientation of the person,
which can help predict
a future direction of travel,
even if the pedestrian
is currently stationary.
Although the complexities of
the task of motion
prediction are quite large,
there are several
assumptions we can
use to simplify the problem.
We will start by looking
at simplifications for
vehicles and then move
on to pedestrians.
These are the two main
categories we'll discuss,
but you can imagine
similar approaches needed for
cyclists and animals
such as dear,
rodents, or even kangaroos.
The first class of
assumptions we rely on,
is that vehicles
must follow a set of
physical constraints
governing their movement.
As we saw in course
one when we were
discussing Vehicle
Kinematics and Dynamics.
These very same vehicle dynamics
can be applied to
other vehicles in the environment
to predict their motion.
We refer to this type of
prediction as a
physics-based prediction.
The second class of assumptions
that can be used are
that almost all motions
by a vehicle on the road,
are made up of a finite set of
maneuvers in a restricted domain
in the environment.
In this case, we assume
that vehicles which are on
the road will stay on the road
and follow the driving rules.
For example, they
will most likely
stay in their lane
unless indicating
otherwise and stop at
regulatory elements
requiring stops.
They are unlikely to drive over
sidewalks or lawns or
through obstacles.
We refer to this type of
assumption as maneuver-based.
Finally, the third class makes
the same assumptions as
the maneuver-based assumptions.
However, instead of only
evaluating each vehicle
independently,
we can also incorporate
the assumption that
the dynamic objects will
react and interact
with each other.
An example of this type
of prediction,
is during a merge by a vehicle
into an adjacent lane.
Often, the vehicle in
the destination lane
will slow down to make
more room for
the incoming vehicle to
maintain a safe
following distance.
These types of
assumptions are referred
to as interaction-aware
assumptions.
For pedestrians,
the same three categories can be
used to summarize
the assumptions we can make.
In terms of physics-based
assumptions,
pedestrians tend to
have a low top speed
but can change their direction of
motion and speed very quickly.
This makes pedestrians quite
challenging to predict
reliably using purely
physics-based assumptions,
but the range of
positions a pedestrian
can reach in a short
time frame is limited.
For maneuver based assumptions,
pedestrians tend not to interact
directly with vehicles.
As they primarily
use sidewalks or
other pedestrian exclusive
zones when traveling.
When entering
the drivable areas of
the environment such
that they might
come into contact with vehicles,
they primarily use
pedestrian crossings.
Although restricting
pedestrian motion to
these regions is
a reasonable assumption,
it is not a hard constraint
and the unpredictability
of pedestrians
requires maintaining
multiple possible hypotheses
about their future actions.
Finally, pedestrians ultimately
have the right of way
and it is the
self-driving cars duty
to stop when necessary.
Inattentive
pedestrians may wander
into a roadway without warning,
but will often stop when
threatened by
an oncoming vehicle.
These types of interactive
assumptions can also be
incorporated into motion
prediction for pedestrians.
Now that we have
a better understanding
of motion prediction,
let's have a look at
a simple computationally
efficient algorithm,
that can be equally applied to
both pedestrians and vehicles.
This algorithm makes
only one extreme assumption
regarding the motion
of the dynamic object.
All dynamic objects will maintain
their current velocity both in
terms of magnitude
as well as heading.
Understanding this,
let's now look at
the algorithmic implementation of
this simple constant
velocity model.
The algorithm takes
three basic inputs t,
the prediction horizon or
the amount of time to predict
the object's location
into the future, dt,
the update rate or path
simulation frequency,
that is the amount of time
between state predictions,
and x object, the
current object's state
which includes the position and
velocity of the dynamic object.
This algorithm iterates
from the current time zero
until the end of the horizon t
in increments of dt.
As we saw in the trajectory
rollout algorithm
in the previous videos,
updating the path with
constant velocity model.
The output of this algorithm is
a list of predicted
objects states,
positions, and velocities for
every time step in
the prediction horizon.
To see how well
these predictions perform,
let's look at a quick example.
We'll use a three
second horizon with
a one second update step and
the current vehicles state as
indicated by the red arrow
in this figure.
As expected, the
predicted locations of
the vehicle move in
a constant direction with
a fixed step size which
corresponds very nicely with
this straight line segment,
with a constant speed limit.
Simply put, this is because
the constant velocity assumption
is valid for
this segment of roadway.
Where the constant
velocity estimate fails,
however, is everywhere else.
While this algorithm
weakly falls into
the category of
physics-based assumptions,
it fails to capture
the full complexity of
vehicle dynamics models,
or even the ability of
a vehicle to accelerate or
decelerate or apply a steering
command other than zero.
Another large flaw of the
constant velocity assumption,
is that it fails to
account for vehicles
tendency to follow changes
in the road shape.
At every point in
this curved roadway example,
the constant velocity
model predicts
the path will continue
into the oncoming lane.
These predictions are wholly
unsuited to behavior planning.
Similarly, the constant
velocity prediction fails to
account for road signs to
make velocity adjustments.
Vehicles approaching
stop signs tend to slow
down and vehicles leaving
a stop line tend to accelerate.
The assumption which
this algorithm
makes is quite strong and does
not apply for most cases
that dynamic objects
may be observed in.
The key challenge to motion
prediction is really
to select the most likely inputs,
to a vehicle or pedestrian model
given what information
is available.
Nonetheless, the constant
velocity model is
an excellent starting
point and helps
define the concept of
motion prediction clearly.
It relies on a minimum of
information about
the dynamic object,
to form its predictions
and can be used
wherever additional cues
are completely unavailable.
Let's summarize. In this lesson,
we learned about the task
of motion prediction for
dynamic objects and its
importance to autonomous driving.
We then defined minimal and
optional information
requirements to create
effective motion
prediction algorithms
for both vehicles
and pedestrians.
We then looked at a simple
constant velocity algorithm
for predicting
the future location
of objects and
identified many of
its limitations.
In the next video,
we will look at
the methods to enhance
our motion predictions,
through the use of
high-definition roadmaps.
We'll see you then.